For that, I'll create a brand new script file, setsmaps.js because the other file is pretty crowded
already and I want to have a clean one and import setsmaps therefore and not the app.js file anymore.
So with that imported in here, let's start with sets.
Let's create a new set of let's say IDs because that is a super example,
IDs should be unique and therefore you might want to store them in a data structure where you can't
have any duplicates. You create a new set always with new set,
you saw new array earlier and there I told you that this is not a great idea and you should use square
brackets instead,
well you have nothing similar, for sets there you have to use new set.
Now you can create a set like this which would be an empty set,
let's log it to get a feeling for how that looks like, if we save it and reload,
this is how it looks like, an empty set and you can alternatively also initialize it by passing in an
existing iterable, any iterable goes. So it can be an array, can be another set, can be a node list.
So here I'll pass in 1, 2, 3, an array with the values 1, 2, 3 and save that
and if we reload, now indeed we have that in the set.
Now here we see index values, 0, 1, 2
but we don't really have access through these values. If we try to access this index 1 let's say, like
that, you will see that this returns undefined, so this doesn't work,
it's just here in the console. Instead to retrieve a value from the set, you can use one of these specific set
methods which you see if you type a dot here and then you get this auto completion. You got add to add
a new entry, clear to clear all entries, delete to delete a single entry entries which we'll have a look
at in a second. ForEach has keys, values and so on.
Now what you don't have here is a method to get a value, there is no get method or anything like
that.
Well if you think about a set, since every value can only be stored once there, you typically don't
want to retrieve a value from there,
instead you can check if it has a certain value,
if one is stored in there and if it is, well in your subsequent code that depends on this existence in
the set,
you can just continue with one, you can just use this value of one because you know it's in the set.
This will return true or false and therefore you can use it in if checks or ternary expressions
and this is how you work with a set,
it's a data storage that basically tells you whether it contains something or not. Now interesting is
if we add a value, let's say we add two here which is a value that already is part of the set here.
So if I now check if it has two and I reload, I get true
but we don't know how often it is stored in there.
Well, let's again log the entire set
therefore to get a view into it and indeed we see, it still has only three elements,
the value of two still only exists once in there
and the reason for that simply is that as I mentioned on the slide, in a set a value is guaranteed to
be unique.
Now if you would want to go through all elements in a set, you can do that with ids.entries.
ids.entries, entries is a method which you can execute and it returns, as you can see, an iterable, which
means you can use it in a for loop,
in a for/of loop, so you can go through entry of ids.entries and console log entry here like that. If
you do that and you reload, you see what you get is actually a couple of arrays which look quite strange
here with these numbers,
it gets clearer what these arrays mean if we change 1, 2, 3 here to different values like hi, from,
set which is of course not your typical set usage I guess
but let's say you want to guarantee that each word is only part of the set once.
If we save that and we reload,
now we see this output here - hi, from, set and then 2, 2 here because I add this there,
right
and as you can see therefore, we can have mixed value types in a set.
So what do we actually get here?
We got something where we have the value twice basically,
well that's just what entries returns.
It returns an iterable of arrays where you always have exactly two entries or elements per entry I
should say
and that's simply the value twice which might sound strange,
why would you have it twice?
Why would it give you these arrays where you have the same value twice?
Well this is there to be in line with the entries method on the map which we'll also later see where you
also get two values but there, they will be different.
So I guess the idea here was that you could easily swap a set for a map and keep your other code in
place and therefore have the same signature here, where you get an entry with exactly two elements,
even though for a set, entry is an array of the same value twice.
So it's just a bit confusing right now, in the end if you want to through all values, you can just access
the first element in the entry, since the second one is exactly the same, you could of course use that
as well and you then log all the values you have in that set.
So this allows you to read the values from a set and not just get the information whether something
is part of it or not
and with that, you can manage the set.
Now if you want to delete something, you can also do this, for example with the delete method and then
enter the value you want to delete, like hi which should delete the string. If you try to delete something
which is not part, you'll not get an error as you see but it will just not do anything,
it's basically ignored. The same as if you add a value which is already part,
you don't get an error, it's just ignored
but of course you typically want to delete what you have and you could always check if IDs has hi
before you try deleting it, though since this won't throw an error if it fails, there might not be a need
to perform this extra check.
Still here to also show the has method, this is how we could ensure that we only try to delete what's
part of that set.
So now with that since I'm deleting hi, if I reload this, hi should no longer be output there because
it's no longer part of the set. So to summarize, sets are a data structure or are data structures which
help you manage unique values and in some cases, that can be useful.
Now as I mentioned earlier already, the array is the most important data structure, so you will probably
not use sets everywhere but if you have an application, a more complex application where you want to
manage let's say ID which are already in use by logged in users, then you could use a set to keep track
of these IDs and you might want to use a set instead of an array because you want to ensure that a
single ID can't be part of the set more than once so that it doesn't get too big,
doesn't consume too much memory or leads to other logical errors
you might have in your code. So sets are great if you need uniqueness amongst your data.
So that's sets,
what about maps?